# WTCS Data System Validators
### Architectural Decision Record (ADR) 0: Document architectural decisions

#### Overview
Based on sofware development best practices and recommendations found in ThoughtWorks Technology Radar https://www.thoughtworks.com/radar/techniques/lightweight-architecture-decision-records
and http://thinkrelevance.com/blog/2011/11/15/documenting-architecture-decisions, the WTCS Data Systems Validators project will "...  keep a collection of records for 'architecturally significant' decisions: those that affect the structure, non-functional characteristics, dependencies, interfaces, or construction techniques."

The 'Overview' section will not exist in ADR documents other than this initial document.

#### Title
These documents have names that are short noun phrases. For example, "ADR 1: Deployment on Ruby on Rails 3.0.10" or "ADR 9: LDAP for Multitenant Integration"

#### Context
This section describes the forces at play, including technological, political, social, and project local. These forces are probably in tension, and should be called out as such. The language in this section is value-neutral. It is simply describing facts.

#### Decision
This section describes our response to these forces. It is stated in full sentences, with active voice. "We will ..."

#### Status
A decision may be "proposed" if the project stakeholders haven't agreed with it yet, or "accepted" once it is agreed. If a later ADR changes or reverses a decision, it may be marked as "deprecated" or "superseded" with a reference to its replacement.

#### Consequences
This section describes the resulting context, after applying the decision. All consequences should be listed here, not just the "positive" ones. A particular decision may have positive, negative, and neutral consequences, but all of them affect the team and project in the future.

The whole document should be one or two pages long. We will write each ADR as if it is a conversation with a future developer. This requires good writing style, with full sentences organized into paragraphs. Bullets are acceptable only for visual style, not as an excuse for writing sentence fragments. (Bullets kill people, even PowerPoint bullets.)
